Course-Project
==============
The R script in this repository, run_analysis.R, will take the data from the UCI HAR Dataset, extract the data corresponding to the means and standard deviations of measurements, find the mean of each variable for each subject/activity pair, and save the data in a tidy data set, tidydata.txt.

In order for this script to run properly, it must be saved in the working directory.  The working directory must also contain the UCI HAR Dataset folder, downloaded and unzipped from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip.  You must also have the R packages dplyr and tidyr installed.

The resulting tidy data file is saved as tidydata.txt in this repository.  To read the file into R, use read.table().

This script works in several steps, which are commented in the run_analysis.R file.  First, it reads in the test and training data, which is part of STEP 1.  It then attaches the columns indicating which subject and which activity was measured for each measurement.  The rename_activity function renames the activity labels from numbers to human-readable SITTING, WALKING, etc.  This completes STEP 3.  The script then reads in the names of the measurements, and adds them as column labels.  These, plus the "Activity" and "Subject" labels on the appropriate columns, complete STEP 4.  The script then merges the testing and training data, completing STEP 1.  The script then creates a small data set, containing only those columns whose name includes "mean" or "std", with any capitalization.  This is STEP 2.  Finally, it takes the mean of each measurement in the small data set for each subject/activity pair, removes duplicate entries, and saves it in a tidy data set, completing STEP 5.  Last, it uses the write.table function to save the tidy data set to tidydata.txt.
